//Personal notes - for recording progression of code.

1. Create 2 folders - a backend folder; this folder will contain your API and any calculations that you may encounter

2. Inside of your backend foler - run "npm init -y"
   Then run "npm install express@4.18.2"

   This will download the necessessary "node_modules" folder, as well as the package.json file.

3. In order for us to import the express module in the server.js file in the following format:
    "import express from express"
    we must:
        Inside of the package.json file underneath "scripts" add
        "type: module"

    This will allow us to run the server with the command "node server.js"

    If you would like to run this program with a simpler command such as "npm run dev"
    inside of the package.json:
        "dev: node server.js"

    now in order to run this program:
    "cd NoteTaking-App/backend"
    then
    "npm run dev"

4. If you would like your application to run in such a way that, any changes that you make to your code
    are automatically updated on the website:
    Run the following commands in the terminal:
    "cd /backend/"
    "npm install nodemon -D"
    
    Following this, go to the package.json file
    change the "dev" line of code to:
    "dev" : "nodemon server.js"

    Now anytime you change your code, the server will refresh, automatically updating your website.


5. We add a new script labelled:
   "start":"node server.js"

   We now have two different scripts, the "dev"(Development) script which we will be using while developing the application
   which allows us to see constant changes as they are being made to the app.

   The "start" script will be used when we are deploying the application for use. 
   We will not need any changes to be updated once the app is deployed, as this 
   is not necessary and will cause disruption to the user.

6. Set up your code in folders, make controllers for each REST Api call.

7. Now we are integrating the databse into the application first.
   To do this we must use the following command:
   "cd /backend/" - to ensure that our terminal is running in the backend.
   "npm install mongoose"

8. Create a configuration folder inside of the source folder (src)
    This folder contains the db.js file, 
    we will be accessing the database within this file.

9. Inside of the db.js file we will create a function "export const ConnectDB",
    within which we will call "mongoose.connect("connection-string-from-MongoDB.com")

10. Place the connection string inside of a .env file
    After which launch this command in the terminal:
    "npm i dotenv"

    We will now be able to import the connection string from the .env file, instead of it openly being in
    our code.

11. Create a models folder, a model will dictate the attributes of a specific component of the application.
    For instance since we are making a NoteTaking application, we will model our Notes with specific attributes.
    To do this we must create a "Note.js" file in our models folder,
    within this folder we will specify the characteristics of a note; namely:
    - Title of the note
    - Description of the note
    - Date note was written/created/updated
    

    ---------------------------------- FULL STACK APPLICATION NOTES ----------------------------------------

    Full-Stack Application:

        Client - This is the frontend of the application, this is what will be presented to the user
                  when they use our application.
        Server - Ths is the backend of the application, this handles all of the logical and mathematical operations,
                  that will be required for the components in our frontend.
        Database - This is where all of the application data will be stored.

        When a user clicks a button or interacts with the Client in anyway such that 
        data is being created or destroyed.
        The Client sends a REQUEST to the Server.
        The Server [Backend] will create or delete the appropriate data in the databas upon receiving this request.
        The Server will then send a RESPONSE back to the Client to say "SUCCESS" or "FAILURE".

        This is captured as the "Request-Response" Lifecycle.

    API:

    This is the Application Programming Interface, in short this interface allows two different applications
    to communicate with each other.

    Types of API's:

    REST API (Most commonly used infrastructure):
    [Uses HTTP Methods]

        GET -> GET data from the application.
        POST -> POST data on the application.
        PUT  -> UPDATE data that is already on the application.
        DELETE -> DELETE data from the application.

    HTTP Status Codes:

    1xxxx - Informational [Something we will not encounter that much, just giving information]
    2xxxx - SUCCESS 
            200 - OK: Everything worked as accepted.
            201 - Created: New resource successfully created (e.g after a POST request).

    3xxxx - Redirection
            The 300 status codes are for redirection meaning the server is telling the client,
            that what we are looking for is somewhere else.
            301 - "Moved Permanently"
                If your website changes domain names.
    
    4xxxx - Client Errors [ These are situations where the client causes an error]
            400 Bad Request - The request is malformed or invalid.
            401 Unauthorized - You must log in (missing or invalid credentials).
            403 Forbidden - You're not allowed to accesss this.
            404 Not Found - The URL doesn't exist.
            429 Too Many Requests.

    5xxxx - Server Errors
            These happen when something goes wrong from the server side even though the client
            has made a valid request.
            500 Internal Server Error - Something broke on the server.
            503 Service Unavailable - Server is temporarily overloaded or down.


    DATABASES:
    
        SQL DATABSE - Data is stored in tables with rows and columns, like a spreadsheet.
        No-SQL Database - Stores data like JSON or key-value pairs - good for changing data
        shapes.

        MongoDB: No-SQL Database.
        